# AHSY-toolkit
Toolkit for micro-geographic property commercial rent indices

**© Gabriel M. Ahlfeldt, Fan Yin**

Version 0.90, 2026

## General remarks

This toolkit covers the algorithm by [Ahlfeldt, Heblich, Seidel, Fan (2026)](https://github.com/Ahlfeldt/DPs/blob/main/GA_SH_TS_FY_-_Productivity.pdf) to generate micro-geographic commercial rent indices for arbitrary spatial units based on transaction data. 

At this point, it includes the indices created by Ahlfeldt, Heblich, Seidel, Fan (2026) for Germany. We keep updating these indices as time goes by. These micro-geographic property price indices are based on **real micro-data** from Scout24. They can be found in the following sub-folder: [APPLICATIONS/DATA/OUTPUT](https://github.com/Ahlfeldt/AHS2023-toolkit/tree/main/APPLICATIONS/DATA/OUTPUT). For replication, the underlying microdata must be accessed from the Forschungsdatenzentrum at RWI-Essen. 

We are working on an **interactive webtool** to illustrate the latest edition of the post-code level price and rent indices for Germany.

Upon publication of the Ahlfeldt, Heblich, Seidel, Fan (2026) paper, we will make the algorithm and a synthetic trial data set available. 

When using the toolkit in your work, please cite Ahlfeldt, Heblich, Seidel, Fan (2026): The price of productivity. Berlin School of Economics Discussion Paper. 

This toolkit complements and builds on the [AHS2023-toolkit](https://github.com/Ahlfeldt/AHS2023-toolkit) designed for residential property price and rent indices based on the methodology developed by [Ahlfedt, Heblich, Seidel (2023)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2022.103836).

## How to Use the Toolkit

Please consider the `README` files in the respective folders for further detail.

## Folders

| Directory | Sub-folder | Description  | Additional Information |
| ------------- | ------ | --- | --- |
| `APPLICATIONS` | `GERMANY` | Folder containing the application of teh Ahlfeldt, Heblich, Seidel, Yin (2026) methodology for Germany | This folder contains indices computed based on **real** data |
| `APPLICATIONS` | `GERMANY/DATA` | Folder containing indices generated by Ahlfeldt, Heblich, Seidel, Yin (2026) for Germany | This folder contains indices computed based on **real** data |
| `APPLICATIONS` | `GERMANY/SHAPES` | Folder containing shapefiles for illustration of the indices | - |
| `APPLICATIONS` | `GERMANY/MAPS` | Folder containing shapefiles for illustration of the indices | - |

## Further resources:

Ahlfeldt, G. M., Heblich, S., Seidel, T. (2023): Micro-geographic property price and rent indices. Regional Science and Urban Economics, 98. [link](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2022.103836)

Ahlfeldt, Heblich, Seidel, Fan (2026): The price of productivity. Berlin School of Economics Discussion Paper. [link](https://github.com/Ahlfeldt/DPs/blob/main/GA_SH_TS_FY_-_Productivity.pdf)
